Title: Brewing Methods

----

Text: The type of coffee we as individuals enjoy can say a lot about our personalities. Perhaps you’re a traditionalist, an old soul; french press is what you might be looking for. A simple person might prefer their routine drip coffee, while a “hipster” almost always enjoys a good chemex.

DRIP COFFEE
Coffee made with a filter, a press pot, a percolator or a countertop coffee maker. Flavor is extracted by contact with water not under pressure.

FRENCH PRESS
Coffee made by steeping grounds with hot water in a vessel with a plunger and metal filter that pushes the grounds to the bottom. Often used in coffee bars for limited-edition coffees. Also called a press pot.

ESPRESSO
Concentrated coffee made when hot water is forced at pressure through fine coffee grounds. Usually slightly less than 2 ounces total. Baristas prefer 8 to 10 bars of pressure and 15 to 25 grams of coffee.

CHEMEX
This an old (invented in 1941) brewing method that has come back in style because it makes bright, clean and smooth coffee. Plus, it looks pretty cool too.
The Chemex is an hourglass shaped device with a conical neck (not cylindrical like the French Press). It uses filters that are thicker than the standard drip filter. The filters are put at the neck of the Chemex, grounds are added to the filter, hot water is poured manually over them and the coffee drips into the glass chamber below.

AEROPRESS
This is the gadget that coffee geeks all over the world love. It looks like a beaker that escaped from a science lab. The inventor of this gadget was looking for the scientifically perfect way to brew coffee. The Aeropress creates a very smooth, flavorful cup of coffee.

CLOVER
In 2005, the Seattle Coffee Equipment Company developed a new kind of coffee maker for coffee shops. Instead of making coffee in batches, the Clover brews just one cup of coffee at a time. It doesn’t use pods like a Keurig, it uses freshly ground coffee, then allows the barista to customize the taste by tweaking the water temperature and brewing time.
In the first year that it was on the market (2006), 100 machines were sold. Sales tripled the next year and Starbucks liked it so much that they didn’t just buy the machines for their stores, they bought the entire company. Now the only place that you can see new Clover machines is in their stores.

PERCOLATOR
A really simple description of the Percolator is that it has two parts, one for the water and one for the grounds. As the water boils, it travels through a tube and on to the grounds.
It was the most popular brewing method prior to the coffeemaker and there’s still lots of people who swear by them, but the problem is that the Percolator uses boiling water, which can leave the final product tasting over extracted and bitter.

POUR OVER
There’s a lot of brewing methods that are a version of the Pour Over like the Clever, Chemex and even the traditional drip coffeemaker. However, there’s also a simple device that’s growing in popularity because of it’s simplicity and that it makes flavorful coffee.
The cone shaped device is usually made out of plastic or porcelain and its on top of a coffee mug. You place a filter on top of it, coffee grounds are added and then you pour hot water over it.
A Pour Over starts at a few dollars for a cheap plastic one, to about thirty dollars for one made out of porcelain. It’s the best way to make a single serving of coffee at home.

STOVE TOP ESPRESSO
I don’t use my stove top Espresso (or Moka Pot) maker nearly enough. It’s not exactly espresso like you get out of an espresso machine, but it’s still a good strong, hearty coffee.
It makes coffee by passing hot water, pressurized by steam through ground coffee. It was patented by Italian inventor Luigi De Ponti for Alfonso Bialetti in 1933. Bialetti Industrie continues to produce the same model under the name “Moka Express” and it’s probably the most popular kind of Stove top Espresso maker. The moka pot is most popular in Europe, as well as in Latin American countries.


http://dailyshotofcoffee.com/22-methods-to-make-coffee-how-many-different-ways-have-you-brewed-coffee/

http://www.nytimes.com/2010/03/10/dining/10glossary.html?_r=0